# There's a snake in my RNA-seq - Introductory course to single cells RNA-seq analysis with Python
RNA-seq analysis is moving very fast towards the single-cell world. Luckily, the Python bioinformaticians community is moving accordingly fast, developing and supporting many tools to ease out the complicated tasks of sequencing analysis. This workshop will introduce the attendants to the basics of single-cell analysis using Python notebooks, scanpy, and the scverse. The workshop will introduce Scanpy, the core of the scverse, software designed to handle single-cell data with the flexibility of a Pandas data frame and some of the related packages developed and maintained by the community. We will go from raw data through QC, filtering, and dimensionality reduction. Spend some time learning why and how it is necessary to reduce the dimensionality of single-cell data and how to do that in a data-driven and information-driven manner. We will then proceed to the clustering phase and explain why understanding this process is fundamental to obtaining reliable and trustable results. Then we will conclude with the annotation phase, showing how we can use automatic methods as a starting point to obtain cell types and manually correct the labels based on our experience. If time permits I will show some packages to obtain Gene Regulatory Networks (GRN) and simulate perturbations on the cells by modifying the transcription of genes in the count matrix.
## Instructors
Samuele Cancellieri
## Live Troubleshooting Session
## Software Requirements